### 9/9/2016

After perusing a number of tutorials, not surprisingly, I am finding that the quality varies greatly. Also, while not being exceptionally experienced with either node or javascript applications, I am already getting the sense that the solutions offered by many of these tutorials are not well architected.

I imagine that when electron was first released, there was a substantial impetus to get content out there. Time was of the essence and in short supply. Additionally, it is often easier to focus on a particular feature or technology (electron), after stripping out architectural abstractions.

My goals for this application are different.

I *am* interested in good architecture, however, and in fact, that is the main purpose of this application. To provide a software solution to a small problem that I can tinker with and explore different ideas. Secondary to this goal, is of course, just learning and getting some hands on experience with the technologies comprising the current *web stack*.

Fundamentally, I want to avoid large frameworks such as Angular, React, etc... While these frameworks all offer substantial features, I want to understand, intimately, what problems they solve. For instance, writing my own injection framework, or something similar, might offer me a greater appreciation for the provider utility offered by Angular. Modularizing view code (e.g. Angular components) should be an interesting process.

I am not opposed to using smaller libraries. Finding ways to integrate the functionality, without exposing the implementation application wide, is a useful exercise. Professionally, I have lately been beleaguered with code that is so intertwined with outside libraries and frameworks that refactoring, when possible, requires substantial effort.

I have also been struggling with a great deal of dissatisfaction with traditional OOP solutions; inheritance in particular. I would like to explore some functional designs to see what strengths and weaknesses it offers. I am intrigued by the idea of objects without inheritance, true encapsulation, and what it might be like to work in a typeless environment. It feels a little like skinny dipping, and that makes me a little uncomfortable!

I am working through what it looks like to show child windows, implement some basic data operations, and explore inter-app communications. The pattern that seems to be emerging, looks quite a bit like a front controller pattern, with the file containing the main ipc process to be the controller.

This could be an interesting pattern, but I am curious to explore a solution more akin to dependency injection and invoking methods directly. Maybe I can try creating some kind of application message bus...

So much to do (and read)!
